# 22.2 Lesson Plan Extras - Lodash

Below are instructions and time allotments for covering Lodash. Today's sorting lesson plan takes priority, but feel free to mention Lodash, and encourage students to experiment with it in their projects.

Consider mentioning [Ramda](http://ramdajs.com/0.22.1/index.html) as an alternative.

### Instructor Notes

* If you're pressed for time, feel free to cover only the first two headings in class, and assign the algorithm rewrite as an optional homework activity.

- - -

### 1. Instructor Do: Lodash Intro (5 min)

* Offer a very brief perspective on Lodash. You can simply say:

> Lodash is a helper library that provides convenient and very efficient methods for manipulating data.

* Be brief, because we want students to experiment for themselves.

### 2. Students Do: Lodash Reading (10 min)

* Slack out the following links to students:


```
* Top 10 Utility Functions with Lodash [http://colintoh.com/blog/lodash-10-javascript-utility-functions-stop-rewriting](http://colintoh.com/blog/lodash-10-javascript-utility-functions-stop-rewriting)


* Lodash Documentation [https://lodash.com/](https://lodash.com/)
```

* Then ask students to read through the pages and offer a short definition for themselves about what Lodash is, and why it matters.


* Have students refer to the [lodashExample.js](../../../../../01-Class-Content/22-computer-science/01-Activities/06-Lodash/lodashExamples.js) as they read.


* If you don't have much time, walk through the Top 10 Utility Functions and `lodashExample.js` with students.

### 3. Partners Do: Sort with Lodash (15 min)

* Have students use lodash methods to create 2 arrays. One 40 random elements, another 400000 elements. Then sort both arrays using lodash.

### 4. Instructor Do: Review Sort with Lodash (5 min)

* Open the file [lodashSolution.js](../../../../../01-Class-Content/22-computer-science/01-Activities/06-Lodash/lodashSort.js), and show how quickly and with how little code we can sort both arrays using lodash.

### 5. Everyone Do: Project Work (Remainder of Class)

* If any class time remains, have students continue working on their projects. 
